[MUSIC]
Okay, this is super exciting in this
video, we're going to publish our game.
You're gonna publish your game to
the Internet using the Unity WebGL build.
This is my game currently online,
we're sharing it at ShareMyGame.com.
That's a site that we've created for
you so
that you can host your game absolutely
free for 30 days on ShareMyGame.com.
So this is the game currently working
online, and available to whoever we
want to share it with so,
let's get your game published and online.
First step,
we need to adjust our aspect ratio.
We've been a little bit naughty.
We just shoved it at 1080 to make sure
that it didn't move around when we
scrolled.
But that's not gonna work so well when
we want to get this on the Internet,
on a website.
So, step one is to change first of all,
our aspect ratio to 169,
which is the same as 1080 but
it's saying it can be any 169,
it doesn't have to be specifically
1080 P which is 1920 by 1080.
You can see that our camera is now tiny,
it doesn't quite make sense in the context
of our game, this is what we see.
Over on to click on Canvas,
left side over here, click on Canvas.
You'll see under canvas scalar,
couple of options.
Currently we have UI scale
mode at constant pixel size.
We want to click on that and
change it to scale width screen size.
Now, our reference resolution
is going to be 1920 by 1080,
cuz that's what we've been
building our game at.
You can see now our canvas fits
nicely around our 1920 this way and
1080 that way.
And it fits in lovely, so as we scale
our screen, move it around, no problemo.
That's gonna mean it's gonna fit no matter
what size someone is viewing it at, okay.
So let's save that, Ctrl + S to save,
now that we've tidied up our aspect ratio.
Next step is to jump up top left to File,
and scroll down to Build Settings.
Under Build Settings, we see options for
what we can build our game as.
If you don't see WebGL as an option,
that means that when you installed Unity,
you didn't install WebGL, no problem.
Go over to Unity Hub, click on Installs,
find the version of
Unity that you're using.
Click on the three little buttons
to the right and add Component and
then you can see all the installation
options that we previously had, and
scroll down, so
you'll see Web GL Build Support.
If you don't have that clicked, click on
that and then you'll need to do a little
bit of downloading and installing and
possibly restarting Unity I believe.
But if you have it installed or once
you have it installed, click on WebGL.
You can see that we've got one scene in
our build which is our sample scene here,
it's build index zero.
We're gonna be doing a lot more, having
a lot more scenes in the upcoming section
of the course that is gonna
be excellent as well.
For now we've just the one and all we
need to do is click on Build and Run, and
we save it to a particular spot.
Ignore my folder there,
that's secret stuff,
I'm just saving this
to my Download folder.
You can save it wherever you want,
I'll give myself a New folder I will
call this folder Text 101 Rick Version.
Actually that's a pretty
dumb name isn't it?
Cuz our game's called The Injured Pilot,
so that is what we should call it.
We shouldn't call it the section of a
course, we should call it the actual game.
So double click on the Injured Pilot or
whatever you're calling your game.
Hopefully you've come up with
a nifty name, select folder and
now that is where we are going
to build and run to.
Its already been selected,
we were just doing the last
step of selecting the folder.
This will take awhile, between one or five
minutes depending upon the speed of your
computer and
how much stuff you've got in your game.
So while this is building,
let me take you through a couple
of other things just very briefly.
First briefly thing I will show you is, if
at any point you get stuck on building to
WebGL, I've given you a link in
the resources to our unit docs for WebGL.
Now this process, if you read through,
you can see that there's some caveats,
it will work on this,
it won't work on that.
It won't work on a lot of mobile devices,
Android and iOS.
So there's some rules in here
about what it will work on,
some of the later things are supported,
some aren't.
But for what we're doing now,
which is just getting this game
to be hosted on a website so
someone can open their browser and
play it, it will serve us very nicely.
The other thing I wanna show you is,
share my game.com.
Again I'm giving you a link in the
resources, this is a game dev tv hosting
location that we provide for you free of
charge, because we love you being part of
our community and want to see your
games and what you've been up to.
Sharemygame.com, you can come over
here and host your WebGL build.
Pretty straight forward, you make you
build, you zip it, that's important, and
then you upload it.
So we're in the process of making a build,
let's see how my build is
coming along here, okay.
A little bit more stalling I need to do,
while I'm stalling, I'll show you our
challenge for this lecture,
Publish and Share Your Game Online.
And I want you to celebrate if this is
your first ever game you've published
online, that is a huge step.
This might not be an award winning game,
but this is massive in terms of you taking
the steps to creating great games
that people are going to love, so
this is super exciting.
Create a WebGL build which we have done
already, publish to ShareMyGame.com,
which I'll do in a moment when
my build finishes building.
Copy the link to your game,
super important that you dont accidentally
click away from the link, and
I'll take you through that step nice and
slowly when we get to it.
But once you've got the link,
you can share that with your friends,
take it to your grandmother and
say, hey, check out this link.
And she'll look at it and
she'll be amazed, hopefully [LAUGH].
Share your game to at least one location,
Facebook, GameDev.tv community site,
Discord site.
Seriously, honestly,
we love to see what you have created.
People in the community love
to see what you've created.
It's a great way for you to be
courageous and say, here's what I did,
here's my approach,
here's my creativity, and
have people give you feedback and
be ready for that feedback.
Some people will just say, hey,
good work, and encourage you and
support you for just publishing it.
Other people will say this is amazing,
other people will say this
is a big piece of garbage.
And be ready for it,
don't take it personally,
listen to what people have to say.
And if you're in the early stages
of your development process,
just take it as a learning journey.
I get people telling me on a daily basis,
this thing I've done is really garbage and
crappy, and
I can't believe I married you, Rick.
Wait a minute,
little bit too much information.
So anyway,
[LAUGH] just be ready for feedback.
This is Rick comedy hour today, isn't it?
Okay, back to our build,
it's still building.
So what I might do is just pause
the video at this point and
let the rest of my build do its
building and you do the same.
Take a break, have cup of coffee, do some
stretching and when our games have built,
we will host it.
Now immediately after the build has
built cuz we clicked Build and Run,
it is running locally, this is not
hosted online anywhere yet, but
it's showing as what we would see.
If and when we host it to a website,
we can see that it's our game and
I can cycle through my options here and
check everything out.
Now I haven't gone through and
looked for bugs,
there's gonna be bugs the very first time
you publish something, so expect that.
And if you are really passionate about
getting your game to be bug-free then
yeah, this is a great chance to dive
in and find those bugs and fix them.
But for now in terms of the course,
we've covered what we want to cover for
the course.
So I'm not gonna go and hunt down all
the bugs, but if you find anything and
you find solutions then please
do share with our community.
So anyone who's looking to have their
game bug-free can resolve that as well.
Now back into Unity,
actually back into my folder structure,
back into Windows Explorer or
Apple Explorer, is that what it's called?
I don't think it is, I think it's
called something even niftier.
But find the folder where you saved
your build and zip that out, so
a couple ways to do that.
We talked about just dragging it and
adding to Archive if you've
got a tool to do that.
Or right click and
send to Compressed Zip Folder,
that's another way to
zip up your folder here.
So we've zipped up that folder,
The Injured Pilot,
that's a good name very excellent.
Over to ShareMyGame.com, over to here,
you can see our options, option three,
options, our steps.
Step number three is upload your game,
click on that button,
find your zipped file,
your zip folder here.
The Injured Pilot, double click on that,
this shouldn't take too long,
maybe up to 30 seconds or a minute
depending again on how big your game is.
It's gonna upload,
it will process, it will take care
of all the inner workings of
getting our game hosted online.
And now I mentioned this earlier,
the super important step,
there will be a link coming up soon,
don't click away and
don't accidentally lose that link,
this is your one chance to grab it.
It's not gonna go flying, no need to
stress but just make sure you copy
the link when this process finishes so
that you can share the link.
Copy it for now and paste it into a file,
into a notepad file if you like or
maybe even bookmark the link, that's
probably the smart way to do it isn't it?
Okay, again, I'm gonna pause,
give it a moment, and
I'll be back when
the processing is finished.
And of course, each time I say that and
pause the video,
two seconds later it finishes
doing what it's supposed to do.
So it's loading into our game, you can
see the link up here, sharemygame.com.
Share and then all this stuff,
this is what we want to copy, so
I'm gonna copy that now.
Hey presto, here is our game, let's
just check that it works in full screen.
It does, keys move us forwardm wonderful,
I'm going to escape out of that, great.
You can see a couple of easy buttons on
the left here if you wanna share to your
Facebook friends to get
some feedback on your game.
It's great to get feedback or
even to brag, hey look I made this thing,
to Twitter, and
importantly to our community site.
If you click on this green
button just here, or
I'll also give you a link in the resources
against the lecture discussions.
If you click there, that will take
you to the community site, and
you can share it straight away.
So, here is the link to
my text adventure game,
I just uploaded, I'd love your feedback.
And then paste the link.
And so that is it, that's a process of you
publishing your game, just a reminder of
our challenge, let me just [SOUND]
up my screen here a little bit.
So we've gone through the process,
build your game, share your game,
link to the game, share on at least one
place, please let us know about it.
I've also given you a link
to the discord chat server,
lots of lovely folks over there
ready to celebrate your success.
Be ready for feedback, positive and
negative and give yourself a massive high
five, open up your window, yell out
to the world, I published my game.
Because this is really very significant
in your journey as a game developer, and
it will get better and better and better,
but this is a very big first step
in terms of publishing your games.
So great work, well done and
I will see you guys in an upcoming video.